# Early Diagnosis of Parkinson's Disease via keystrokes
## Inspired
Parkinson's disease sickened over 6 million individuals worldwide. The impact extended to their immediate families and friends, societies, medical communities and many more resources are not negligible. <br><br>
This neurodegenerative disease is incurable but early discovery indisputably benefit the wellbeing of the patient and all involved. Diagnosis typically relies on neurologists but it is the individual patient (or close family member) who has to first discover that he or she is having the symptom of Parkinson's disease. When the well-known symptom of movement disorder becomes obvious to the patient it typically has been five to ten years since the patient has the disease. More than half of the area affected in the brain are damaged and many episodes of falls and injuries have already occurred. It is certainly more stressful to care for a patient with Parkinson's disease and physical injuries and some other form of damages like depression compare to just the disease itself.<br><br>
A cost-effective test that can be done at home with simple and familiar apparatus would be one of the best solution for early detection.<br><br>
Experiment has been conducted to use keyboard stroke as a mean to allow non-clinical personnel to make a guided diagnosis. This help captures the pre-motor phase of the disease, which could be years, or decades before the degeneration and the tell-tale symptoms of the failing motor control. <br><br>
Inspired by the study 'High-accuracy detection of early Parkinson's Disease using multiple characteristics of finger movement while typing' recorded in physionet.org, I am eager to put machine learning to work to build a great classification model so that precious opportunity to start treating or researching the disease is not lost.<br><br>
## Goal
The goal is to take in data sets provided by physionet.org for the study 'High-accuracy detection of early Parkinson's Disease using multiple characteristics of finger movement while typing' (Tappy keystroke data) and build a satisfactory binary classification model out of it. The model will be able to predict by using patient's keystroke data input if he or she has Parkinson's disease. 
<br><br>
There is another project also hosted by physio.net: neuroQWERTY MIT-CSXPD. The way keystroke data was acquired is different from the Tappy project but the difference is in the soft wares and environments set up. The data collected by neuroQWERTY have the similar attribute that Tappy project collected. The preliminary exploration has shown that they can be used together with Tappy data set thereby increasing the total volume of available data. 
